Okay, let's now get
started with Angular JS.
What exactly is Angular JS?
How do we make use of it?
Where did it come from, and
where are we going to go with it?
Let's ask ourselves some basic
questions in this lesson.
Talking about the history of Angular.
Angular was designed by Misko Hevery.
I hope I got that right.
He was a Google employee that
designed this framework.
It was first released in June 2012,
and pretty soon became
one of the most popular front end
JavaScript frameworks even to this day.
What is Angular?
Angular is a structural framework for
designing dynamic web applications.
HTML, as you are familiar with,
supports only static documents.
Whatever you specify in HTML is
what is shown in your webpage.
Angular comes in and fills in the gaps
to support dynamic applications.
So it solves what we call as the impedance
mismatch between that back end data,
and the fact that HTML is only
able to display static content.
Angular adds the dynamic features to HTML.
And Angular is particularly designed
to work well with current applications.
Create, read, update,
and delete applications.
We're gonna examine CRUD in more
detail in some of the later modules.
So these applications
are data driven applications.
So which means that the data
keeps changing and so you need to
keep updating your page,
depending on the changes in the data.
Interestingly, Angular also supports
the declarative approach for programming.
So, which means that you specify
what you want to accomplish, and
then Angular takes care of accomplishing
it, or how it is done on your behalf.
When you open any book or
go to any site talking about Angular,
you'll be bombarded with a whole
bunch of Angular vocabulary.
You'll hear people talking about two-way
data binding, scope, directives,
templates, routing, testing, modules,
controllers, filters, factories,
services, provider.
And then you collapse, and
then you say this is not for me, and
you will start running away.
Don't worry.
We'll examine all of these in
a leisurely pace, step by step,
so at the end of this course, you'll have
understood every one of these concepts.
So we'll start with two-way data binding
and directives in the first lesson.
Then, we'll move on to looking at modules
and controllers, and then filters.
Then, in some of the later modules, we'll
come back to visit templates, routing,
scope, and also factories,
service, providers, and testing.
How you would write test
driven code in Angular.
How do we get started?
First, of course get hold of Angular.
Now, since we have Bowers helping us,
we're gonna make use of Bowers to
go and grab Angular for
us when we do our exercises.
Now once you get hold of Angular,
you need to include the Angular JavaScript
code into your page.
So the script tag comes
to your rescue there.
So you're going to say script.
And than supply the source,
which is Angular JS.
Now, in this case,
I am using angular minified version of JS.
I'll talk about what minified
means in the next module.
Now once you get hold of Angular and
put it in your webpage,
then the immediate next step is
how you make use of Angular.
Now the easiest way to get started
with Angular is looking at
Angular directives,
the built in directives in Angular.
Now, Angular directives or the built-in
directives are HTML custom attributes.
They help you to extend HTML
to support dynamic behavior.
Now the way to support it,
is through what we call as,
ng-* attributes, or data-ng-* attributes.
If you recall, we had already seen
the data hyphen star attributes,
in the context of Bootstrap and
jQuery earlier.
Angular attributes are built in
directives, all start with ng hyphen.
Or, if you want to make sure that
the HTML validators will not complain,
then you can use data
hyphen ng hyphen star,
when you specify the Angular directives.
Now some examples of Angular directives
that you're gonna examine in this lesson
are ng-app, ng-bind, ng-model,
ng-init, ng-repeat.
Now, when you see them
written in documentation,
you might see them being referred to
using the using the camelCase as ng app.
Ng bind without the hyphen there.
So the camelCase,
starting with ng as the first two letters,
and then the actual directives.
But within HTML,
you always use ng- because HTML is case
insensitive so specifying it
using camelCase will not work.
So that's why when you see that
Angular directives being used in code,
you will see them being
used with ng- prefix.
Directives is declarative
programming in action.
When you specify a directive, you are
specifying to Angular what it needs to do.
So when you say ng app,
you are specifying to Angular, start up,
and bootstrap the Angular application.
When you say ng init,
Your asking angular to initialize some
variables or execute and expression.
Let's examine some of
these in more detail next.
The first directive that your gonna
encounter when you need to do
angular application is
the ngApp directive.
So, the ngApp directive is applied
to an HTML tag to specify
the root of your application.
You can attach the ngApp directive
to any of the tags that you want.
So, between the opening and
the closing of that particular tag,
E is your very Angular application.
E is in operation.
Typically you would apply the ngApp
tag to the HTML tag in your webpage.
Essentially, saying that the entire
page is under the control of
an Angular application.
The next directive that you will
encounter is the ng-init directive.
Now the ng-init directive is
used to evaluate an expression.
What exactly is an expression?
I'm gonna talk about that next.
The ng-init can also be used
to initialize a JavaScript
variable that we're gonna
make use of within your page.
So for example,
you can specify with a  tag,
you can say ng-init is equal to one there,
meaning that the variable
index is initialized to one.
You can also use ng and h2, for example,
declare an object, a JavaScript object.
So in this case, I am declaring
dish which is a JavaScript object,
which contains several
properties associated with it.
What are angular expressions?
Angular expressions are simple
JavaScript expressions.
They are evaluated against what we
call is an Angular scope object.
Now, hold onto the term scope.
We are gonna come back to
that in the second module.
At this moment,
I'm not going to talk about scope, but
we'll come to that in the second module.
Now when you write expressions in Angular,
you're not going to be writing
conditionals, loops, or exceptions.
Those complex expressions are not
what we're talking about.
We're talking about more
simpler expressions.
Now when you write expressions in Angular,
they're always enclosed in double braces.
So you would specify them
with starting double brace,
the expression, and
then ending double brace.
Let's look at a couple of examples.
The first example that you see here,
it says  6 + 5 = and
within the double braces you
are specifying six plus five.
Now, when this is
displayed in your webpage,
this will display that six
plus five is equal to 11.
So, the expression that is
specified within the braces
is actually computed when Angular
application runs and then the value will
be substituted in place in the HTML
code that is displayed on your webpage.
Similarly, you will see me using
the dish object that we declare
using the ng init directive that
we saw in the previous slide.
So from the dish object, I can refer to
any of the properties of the dish object
and then use them as expressions
when I write HTML code.
So here, for example,
I am declaring a media body div.
And inside the media body div,
I am using an H2 tag with the dish.name
enclosed in double braces,
specifying that as an angular expression.
So when this is actually
displayed on your web page,
that dish.name will be
substituted by actual value.
Similar the dish.description.
So, now you are beginning to see
the connection between JavaScript,
variables, and
how they are used within the HTML
code that we write in order to do binding.
Again, hold onto that word, binding.
I'm gonna come back to
that in a short while.
Another directive that you're going to
see in use is the ngModel directive.
The ngModel directive allows
you to bind an input value
to a JavaScript variable within the scope.
This is where we have the two way
data binding coming into action.
I'll talk about two-way data
binding in the next slide.
As an example,
in this code you see me writing for
a p, I specify the input type as text and
then as specific ngModel
is equal to dish.comment.
And you see me using the dish.comment
in the p above as comment coded,
and then I specify
an expression dish.comment.
Let's see the behavior of
this on your webpage and
then we'll come back to
this slide one more time.
Taking a look at the webpage, you can
notice that the code that I just showed
you on that page will
produce this on the webpage.
So inside here you can
see an input box there.
Watch what happens as I type in some
information into the box there.
As you noticed,
as I type information into the input box,
automatically the content right
next to the comment is displaying
exactly the same information
that I type into the input box.
This is two way data binding in action.
As I change the value
in the input box there,
that value is being bound to
the dish.comment, JavaScript variable and
I am using the dish.comment JavaScript
variable inside an expression which
is used inside the comment p tag there.
So as the variable value changes because
when I type in the value in the input box,
the value of the variable changes, that is
immediately reflected onto the web page.
So getting back to the code.
You can now see how using
the nGModel directive,
I can specify that whenever any value
is changed inside an input box or
even text area box or
other form elements that
we have seen before,
it'll automatically change
the value of a JavaScript variable.
In turn the JavaScript variable can be
used in certain expression in my web page
and the change in the value is
immediately reflected into my web page.
What you just saw was, in Angular,
the two-way data binding concept.
What does two-way data binding mean?
Two-way data binding means
that you can bind an HTML or
a CSS property to a JavaScript variable.
So whenever the JavaScript
variable's value changes, the HTML
element value or the CSS property
will automatically be updated.
The reverse also acts, so
as you saw with the input field,
if I enter and try to change the input
field value, which will result in a change
of the JavaScript variable, that will be
automatically reflected back to the pitch.
So this is two-way data binding in action.
You're gonna see more of this as we
go through the rest of this course.
Another directive that you're gonna
encounter is the ngRepeat directive.
The ngRepeat directive in
Angular is a looping construct.
The ngRepeat directive can loop over
a set of items in a collection.
Or for example, if you have an array of
JavaScript objects, then the ngRepeat
directive can be used to loop over all
the JavaScript objects in that array.
So in addition,
the ngRepeat allows you to initialize or
instantiate a template for
each of those items in the collection.
Now what exactly is a template?
We're going to come to
that in the next module.
But for the moment, all it stands for
is some HTML code that is gonna be
repeated for every item in a collection.
So, for example, you will see me using the
ngRepeat directive like this example here.
So here I am declaring a media-list.
And inside the media-list,
I have media-list elements there.
And then I specify
ng-repeat dish in dishes.
Let's see the result of this,
and then we'll come back and
see why the ngRepeat directive
works the way it does.
I'm gonna be making use of the ngRepeat
directive to construct
a list of menu items.
So you can see that here, on the web page,
I have a list of menu items.
Each of the menu items has displayed
exactly in the same format.
So the template allows me to define
the format of the repetitive HTML code,
and
that can be looped over using
the ngRepeat directive.
So here, I am using a media object for
defining each one of these elements,
so that forms a list element.
So my media object
becomes the template for
that, and
then I am repeating them multiple times.
So that is what allows me to construct
a list of menu items on my webpage.
Going back to the code, now you begin to
see why the ngRepeat construct is useful.
In the ngRepeat construct,
I say dish in dishes.
Now dishes is going to be
a JavaScript object array, and
I'm gonna loop over every
object in that array, and
then instantiate a template for
the menu item that you just saw on
the web page for each one of those
dish objects inside the dishes
JavaScript array of objects.
So ngRepeat is going to be very,
very useful when you write your
Angular applications.
Now it's time for some hands on exercise.
We have just learned a few
basics of Angular JS.
Let's make use of them In a hands
on exercise and then consolidate,
for understanding of Angular directives.
So in this exercise, you're gonna use
the Angular directives in ng-app,
ng-init, ng-model, and ng-repeat.
And we'll use angular
expressions in constructing
a web template that you're
gonna see in the exercise.
[NOISE]
So it's a data driven [NOISE]